---
layout: default
title: I18n
parent: Concepts
nav_order: 40
has_children: true
---

# I18n (Internationalization)

The content displayed on NRN is translated using different ways, depending on where the translations are stored:
- GraphCMS - Dynamic content (fetched from the DB, through GraphCMS API). This content can be updated through GraphCMS backoffice.
- Locize - Static content (fetched from Locize API). This content can be updated through Locize backoffice, or when using in-context editor.

## Fetching translations through GraphCMS

> When the content is fetched through GraphCMS, the content is automatically internationalized using the `gcms-locale` **HTTP header** provided in the HTTP request.
>
> This means that a given user will not fetch the same content (even though the GraphQL query is identical) based on the `gcms-locale` value.

The `gcms-locale` value is a string of the form `'FR, EN'`. _([case matters!](https://graphcms.com/docs/api/content-api/?ref=unly-nrn#passing-a-header-flag))_
There is two locales defined in this example _(there can be more, but we only handle 2 locales at this time in this app)_.
- `FR` is the first and main locale. Content in French will therefore be loaded first.
- `EN` is the second and is a fallback locale. If the content is not found in the main locale, then fallback locales are used.

See the [official documentation](https://graphcms.com/docs/api/content-api/?ref=unly-nrn#passing-a-header-flag) to learn more.

> **N.B:** Even though it is possible to also specify the language `per field`, our **default approach** is to translate all content at once based on the header,
> because it's so much simpler, and handles automated fallback, which is very useful if the content is not defined in the primary requested language.

## Fetching translations through Locize provider

> When the content we want to display doesn't come from GraphCMS API, then it's considered as a "static" content.
>
> This means that the content is managed by [Locize](https://locize.com?ref=unly-nrn) and must be updated manually there.

Check [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9NOzJhgmyQE) to see Locize in action with react-i18next.

### Locize translation workflow in-depth

The Locize project contains two different **versions**:

- `latest`: This **Locize version** is used in **any non-production application stage** (development, staging). That's where translations get added/updated by translators.
- `production`: This **Locize version** is only used in the production application stages (`APP_STAGE=production`) _(all customers share the same `production` version in the current setup, for the sake of simplicity)_

> This separation between the two versions is important and very useful to avoid deploying unapproved changes to the production stage.

In order to update the `production` version, all changes must go through the `latest` version.
They can therefore be tested during the development phase, then during the staging phase.
Once you're ready to ship the content to production, the `production` version can be updated from the `latest` version, which will automatically update all customer production stages.

> **Tip**: New i18n keys are added automatically in the `development` stage, as they are being added to the source code, thanks to the `saveMissing` [option](src/utils/i18nextLocize.ts). _This can also be a bit boring with HMR, because useless keys may be created while programming._

#### Locize additional services

Locize provides a few [additional services](https://locize.com/services.html?ref=unly-nrn). Some are free, some are paid.

#### Other additional services

- One interesting thing is the ability to share part of the project to be translated by a third party using [`Crowdbased`](https://locize.com/services.html?ref=unly-nrn), without sharing the whole project.
- There are also several paid [Translation services](https://locize.com/services.html?ref=unly-nrn), where you can pay people to translate your content.
- It is also possible to enable [Audit](https://locize.com/services.html?ref=unly-nrn), which allows to audit every change to our translations, and keep changes up to 10 years. (_expensive_)
